Add style guide for Go (#373)
gruntwork-io/gruntwork-io.github.io: _posts/2020-11-09-golang-style-guide.adoc

---
title: Go Style Guide
categories: Styleguides
image: /assets/img/guides/go-logo-blue.png
excerpt: The style guide for the Go programming language that is used by all Gruntwork-owned code repositories that contain Go code.
tags: ["go", "golang", "code", "style"]

> cloud: ["styleguides"]

Reviewer: As mentioned above, I think we should actually mark this as all clouds to avoid overloading the cloud filter.

---
:page-type: guide
:page-layout: post

:toc:
:toc-placement!:

// GitHub specific settings. See https://gist.github.com/dcode/0cfbf2699a1fe9b46ff04c41721dda74 for details.
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
toc::[]
endif::[]

== Intro
This is the style guide for the Go programming language. It aims to help us ensure that the code we write is
clear, readable, idiomatic Go code. The conventions detailed in this guide are our preferences and should be thought of
as guidelines rather than hard rules.

== Starting point
We use the excellent https://golang.org/doc/effective_go.html[Effective Go] guide as the starting point for our style
guide. Unless explicitly mentioned otherwise, we default to following the conventions outlined in it.

Another helpful resource is the https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/CodeReviewComments[CodeReviewComments] section of the
Go GitHub wiki page.

Below you will find the list of conventions that differ from the above mentioned documents, either because they are

> specific to Gruntwork, or because we consciously chose to go against what Effective Go and CodeReviewComments recommend.

Reviewer: I noticed this when doing the upgrade guide too. I didn't have time to figure out why this was happening, but I did manage to see that the CSS styles were only applying if you use the headings expected in the guides, `Intro`, `Core concepts`, `Deployment walkthrough`, etc. Just wanted to share this in case the info helps shorten the debug cycle.

> specific to Gruntwork, or because we consciously chose to go against what Effective Go and CodeReviewComments recommend.

Reviewer 2: @eak12913 I noticed this issue still remains:

<img width="822" alt="Screen Shot 2020-11-18 at 12 58 01 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/711908/99533380-b5b3dd00-299d-11eb-8028-b65bddcc2559.png">

Note the lack of vertical whitespace between paragraphs. Not urgent, but when you get a chance, could you take a look?

> specific to Gruntwork, or because we consciously chose to go against what Effective Go and CodeReviewComments recommend.

Reviewer 2: @eak12913 -- test mention as requested.

> specific to Gruntwork, or because we consciously chose to go against what Effective Go and CodeReviewComments recommend.

Reviewer 3: Thanks!

PR to address the issue here: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/gruntwork-io.github.io/pull/379

== Additional conventions
=== General
Before committing any Go code, run `go fmt` and `goimports`. We run these as part of the CI build, so this will prevent
your build from failing.

=== Control structures
When possible, avoid `else` and nested `if` statements. Prefer multiple `return` statements over nested code.
This makes the code more readable and avoids complexity.

E.g:
[source,go]
----
// Do this
if something {
	doThis()
	return this
}
if orOther {
	return that
}
return theOther
----

[source,go]
----
// Don't do this
if something {
	doThis()
} else {
	if orOther {
		return that
	}
}
----

=== Error handling
Prefer using the `errors` standard library package for handling single errors and `hashicorp/go-multierror` for

> handling multiple errors.

Reviewer: NOTE: We want to avoid linking in hashicorp libraries as they use a flavor of copyleft license (albeit weak form) which we currently don't allow use of as a policy. Can't do anything about the usage we already have, but should probably avoid new usage until we resolve that issue.

Given that, we probably shouldn't include recommendations in the style guide that require linking in a hashicorp library.

> handling multiple errors.

Author: Ah, that's a good point that totally slipped my mind. Will amend.

=== Pointer usage
Prefer using value type over pointers, unless necessary.

=== Testing

> All files containing business logic must have a corresponding unit test file, and we aim to have 100% test coverage.

Author: Makes sense, I'll reword.

> Unless there's a reason not to, tests should run in parallel. This is done by including a call to `t.Parallel` in the test function.

Reviewer: I think https://www.notion.so/gruntwork/Terraform-Module-Style-Guide-78084ab078e4472481b499a5767e136e#759fdeca732647c2a8c019dd1d9bf3c9 should be ported here.

> Unless there's a reason not to, tests should run in parallel. This is done by including a call to `t.Parallel` in the test function.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Unless there's a reason not to, tests should run in parallel. This is done by including a call to `t.Parallel()` in the test function.
```
Should we add parenthesis to reinforce its a function call?

Author: I think it's fine, since we're talking about a function and referring to it by its name.

=== Naming things

> Prefer descriptive names over short ones. In particular, avoid one-letter variable names.

Reviewer 2: NIT: mention that one-letter variable names are OK in a tiny handful of cases where that has become the idiom (e.g., `i` as the index in for-loops), but everywhere else, a more descriptive name helps with code understanding and maintenance, at very little cost, given auto-complete in most IDEs/editors.

If a name contains an acronym, only capitalize the first letter of the acronym. E.g. use `someEksCluster` rather than
`someEKSCluster`. We go against the https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/CodeReviewComments#initialisms[recommendation]
here in order to follow the convention already in use by some third party packages we heavily rely on (e.g. `aws-sdk-go`).

==== Constants
Since many languages use `ALL_CAPS` for constants, it is worth calling out explicitly that
https://golang.org/doc/effective_go.html#mixed-caps[Effective Go] recommends using `MixedCaps` for all names, including constants.
Therefore, `region` or `testRegion` for private constants and `Region` or `TestRegion` for public ones is preferred over
`REGION` or `TEST_REGION`.

=== Repo-specific conventions
==== terratest

> Note the existence of methods in terratest which are suffixed with the letter `E`, e.g.

Reviewer: I don't think so, but we should add as we find them.

> https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terratest/blob/master/modules/aws/account.go#L23[GetAccountIdE]. The suffix `E`
> signifies that the method returns an error as the last return value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terratest/blob/master/modules/aws/account.go#L23[GetAccountIdE]. Methods that have the suffix `E` return an error as the last return value; methods without `E` mark the test as failed (e.g., via calling `t.Fail()`) instead of returning an error.
```
